---
id: "release_notes"
lang: "en"
title: "0.4.0 Release Notes"
label1: "Release Notes"
---
# 0.4.0 Release Notes

## Overview

ZILLIZ Analysis 0.4.0, released on October 15, 2019, has the following improvements compared with the 0.3.0 version:

- Optimized the display performance for billion-scale data
- Optimized the installation and configuration tools
- Added a visualized, interactive interface that supports 9 types of charts and enables customization in interface layout, charts, and analytics algorithms.
- Added GPU acceleration for GIS core analytics algorithms. The current GPU acceleration supports data filtering, geospatial and temporal transformation, data cohesion, and data correlation.
- Added server-side GPU-accelerated rendering which is seamlessly integrated to the SQL engine and can implement end-to-end acceleration from data analytics to graphic rendering.
- Added GPU-accelerated CSV parsing.
- The data format in the memory layer is compatible with Apache Arrow and supports in-memory data exchange based on Apache Plasma.
- Added deployment via docker.

## Infini


### System configuration

- Added support for modifying database information via the Infini interface.
- Added support for setting API addresses via the environment variable.


### Dashboard

- Added support for modifying the dashboard title in real time.
- Added heap stack map for displaying data horizontally and vertically.
- Added hot spot map for filtering data with multiple groups, rows, and columns.
- Added support for exporting CSV files from charts.
- Added support for map color notifications.
- Optimized the function of automatically formatting dimension and measurement data with 3 new types of numeric display format.
- Added support for tables to display groups and cross-filtering.
- Added automatic data grouping to avoid the page from freezing when there is too much data.


### Chart editor

- Added data tables to preview column definitions.
- Added support in the edit mode to clear filters.


## MegaWise


### SQL engine

- Added the following GIS functions:
  - distance_in_meters: calculates the spherical distance based on latitude and longitude.
  - gis_discrete_trans_scale: linear transform function
  - gis_discrete_trans_scale_long_epsg_4326_900913: latitude transform function that transforms EPSG:4326 to EPSG:900913
  - gis_discrete_trans_scale_lat_epsg_4326_900913: longitude transform function that transforms EPSG:4326 to EPSG:900913
  - is_in_circle: determines whether the point is in the specified circle.
  - is_in_polygon: determines whether the point is in the specified polygon.

- Added date_trunc support at the quarter level.
- Optimized task scheduling for multiple GPUs and improved the sensibility of the scheduler for data locality.
- Optimized the efficiency of accessing metadata.
- Optimized the performance of AGG operands.
- SQL optimizer:
    - Optimized the algorithms for AGG.
    - Optimized the physical implementation of AGG.
    - Optimized th physical implementation of JOIN.
    - Implemented distinct related AGG operations to improve the execution efficiency.
    - Added support for nested subqueries in AGG.
    - Optimized the ANY subquery to improve execution efficiency.
    - Optimized the result range approximation of the extract function.
    - Optimized LIMIT to support high-performance physical implementation.
    - Added optimization rules for main memory/video memory data exchange cost.

## Picasso

- Added the following data rendering types:
  - circles_2: 2-dimensional scatter chart
  - weighted_color_circles_2d: weighted 2-dimensional scatter chart with variable size and color
  - multi_color_circles_2d: 2-dimensional scatter chart colored into groups
  - heatmap_2d：2-dimensional heat map
  - icon_2d：render 2-dimensional icons
- Added support for EGL off-screen rendering
- Accelerated the rendering process by GLSL.
- Paralleled the preparation process of rendering.
- Accelerated the process of image encoding and compression.

## BUG fixes

- 1000296            Fixed the issue that some SQL queries could not render graphics.
- 1000291            Fixed the issue that distinctJoin generated the wrong planTree.
- 1000229            Fixed the issue that rendering functions occasionally had the rc=282633 error.
- 1000223            Fixed the issue that grpc information was lost when the program ran for a long time.
- 1000209            Fixed the issue that exceptions occured when the programm ran for multiple times.
- 1000199            Fixed the issue tha some SQL queries could not return data.
- 1000197            Fixed the issue that the pie chart had unexpected results.
- 1000194            Removed rendering dependency on glfw.
- 1000192            Fixed the issue that the program did not respond to gis queries.
- 1000185            Fixed the issue that some SQL queries were not running correctly in gis.
- 1000184            Fixed the issue that some SQL queries were not running correctly.
- 1000183            Fixed the issue that render_engine crashed when the program was running.
- 1000182            Fixed the error of MegaWise import data.
- 1000181            Fixed the stability issue of grpc communication.
- 1000161            Fixed the issue that data did not reach disk when MegaWise crashed.
- 1000138            Fixed the memory leak caused by unremoved data in chewie.
- 1000133            Fixed the issue that the pie chart selection logic was wrong.
- 1000132            Fixed the issue that gis polyglot queries had unexpected results.
- 1000125            Fixed the stability issue of gis render_engine.
- 1000070            Fixed the data consistency issue of global memory between threads when using GPU multi-threading.
- 1000068            Fixed the issue of wrong data type usage when setting the SetChunkMeta template interfaces.
- 1000059            Fixed multiple issues with video memory leak.
- 1000052            Fixed the issue that the meta for 0 rows of data was not returned when the output data was empty in the limit node.
- 1000044            Fixed the issue that the program crashed when the number of opened files exceeded the default value in Linux.
- 1000040            Fixed the display issue when the data value was too large.
- 1000036            Fixed the issue that when hot data was present, inserting files caused the program to crash (automatically fixed when connected to kudu).
- 1000035            Fixed the issue that MegaWise crashed when you opened too many files at the same time.
- 1000027            Fixed the inconsistency of error codes in chewie.
- 1000011            Fixed the issue of timestamp data processing for the database, which now supports more data types.
- 1000320            Fixed the issue that you could not add two columns to a table.
- 1000319            Fixed the issue that the point chart repetitively popped up to display numeric data.
- 1000318            Fixed the issue that the line chart animation occasionally froze.
- 1000317            Fixed the issue that the bar chart repetitively refreshed.
- 1000316            Fixed the issue that the line chart repetitively refreshed.
